Hey guys welcome back to the Corps.
So in our last lecture we are three different types of content that we're focused on answering questions
talked about tutorials interviews and we talked about round ups and this lecture.
I wanted to focus on content types that really embraced the power of the list.
Why list you might ask well list offer the writer a way to upload a bunch of items and information really
quickly and allows the reader to scan them pretty easily for content like blog posts.
Many people like lists because when they see that number in the title you know these posts like eight
easy ways to do something or 49 free Web sites for doing whatever they know exactly how much stuff they're
getting.
Forty nine or eight or twenty or whatever.
And this list type content can make for great reference material the type of stuff people bookmark or
go back to multiple times.
And also it often gets shared a lot because again people like to share things they know people want
to read.
People want to read things that are easy to digest.
Listicle just in general are easy to digest.
So those are going to talk about two different types of list content.
Listicle and resource compilations.
All right so first up which is exactly a listicle.
Don't worry it's not a medical condition like if you're listicle last longer than four hours please
consult a doctor.
We're actually talking about list article.
It's a portmanteau.
Yes.
And just said portmanteaux of the word list and the word article stick them together.
It's kind of like the word smog which you might have thought was just the Chinese word for clouds but
instead actually it's it's a portmanteau of smoke plus fog equals smog.
Now the goals are pretty easy to identify because they usually have a number in the Title 47 reasons
why you should never go to Kazakhstan or the best ways to cook potatoes in order.
You can literally go to Google start typing in any random number under a hundred.
The 38 best and yeah you'll find results now.
Yes.
Ellipticals are a bit over done right now and there's no better evidence of this than some of the list.
Buzzfeed has put out recently.
That just go to BuzzFeed and search just jumping around.
They have some of the worst stuff I've ever seen.
There's one called 15 hedgehog's with things that look like hedgehogs or 20 things that will make you
say no.
Or 35 people who just realize that Seth MacFarlane the guy started Family Guy is actually hot.
I'm guessing there are some slow news days at BuzzFeed But before you pass this over as being out of
style or overly saturated or something that you saw years ago but it's done.
Actually let me tell you it's if you look at the numbers and look at the the reality of the situation
it's not not even close the amount of listicle is on the Internet is increasing not decreasing.
And there are veritable merits to using this form of blogging.
Now it's also probably the easiest thing to churn out if you're just stuck and not sure what to write
about.
Listicle is hit on something important.
People like this form of content and because of that it's not going to go away for a long time.
So what sort of listicle could you make.
Well the top ten ways to use your product is a star but it's not terribly interesting so let's give
it some kind of angle.
The top 10 unexpected ways to use your product or think of those pain points you talked about before.
Top Ten Ways your product save saves customers money or if that's too specific try top ten ways our
product can help your small business.
But remember what I mentioned about making tutorials while you have the option of making things that
are internal or internally focused where you create things that describe your products or your services
like we just did here in the last example or you can think externally and focus on customer needs.
Beyond your stupid products maybe you make an app for digital artists to quickly retouch photos on their
phone so you could write thirty seven breathtaking photos taking on an iPhone or 25 digital artist taking
mobile photography to the next level.
Those listicle are about your product but could be interesting and or even inspirational to your customers.
Here's a great example.
Nine-Nine designs is a graphic design marketplace where freelance artists come together to create designs.
People might need need a logo or a book cover or a T-shirt design.
I'll check them out nationally.
Freelance artists are a big part of their audience so their blog naturally covers a lot of relevant
information for that exact type of person.
They provide lots of tutorials but also listicle that provide lots of ideas like this one here with
30 free public domain image sites which is actually a common need for designers the last thing you want
to do is grab an image that you don't have the rights to use it and then get sued.
Here's a few more listicle tips if you can digest it.
What a blow people's minds.
Well give them something like 10 and a half.
Unexpected ways to use your product.
What's a half reason you might say.
How do you even measure a half reason.
Believe it or not more people and more readers will be drawn to this simply out of curiosity.
We're getting to that point where we're more and more used to the standard template headlines for listicle.
So the more you can change it or tweak it or make something out of the ordinary More likely they are
to recognize that this is something that generally we see in all marketing channels as it matures.
So instead of making top 10 lists going from one to 10 make it a countdown that counts from ten to one
save the best for last.
Keep the reader guessing what will be number one.
That's another way of doing it slightly differently.
Another thing is that data has shown that crazy adjectives can grab people's attention instead of top
10 unexpected ways perhaps try ten ridiculous ways or 10 hilarious ways and use an adjective that makes
some kind of sense.
Please for the love of God don't use the word epic or game changing every time because one you sound
like an idiot and two if you keep using those words they cease to mean anything so stop it.
OK so listicle healthy present lists of content.
Go figure.
They could be links they could be lists of tools or pictures or songs or whatever.
Listicle are very flexible that way.
So find ways to explore the different types of information you can present that has value to your audience
and that you can fit in some type of a list.
Now another type of list that can have a lot of value for your audience is the second type we're talking
about in this lecture.
It's called a resource compilation.
Now this is basically a list of helpful resources helpful blogs web sites downloads apps tools whatever
that your audience would appreciate about a certain topic.
This type of list is specifically focused on giving readers something they can continually return to
to help them do things better.
If you guys are in my non-technical persons guide to building products and apps we have a couple of
resource compilations at the very end.
I put something like 90 tools for non-technical entrepreneurs and it's divided by each stage of starting
a business.
That is something people generally like.
Here's another example.
Startup stash is a Web site you might have seen a product is the most popular thing products listed
on product on ever.
Well they bill themselves as a curated directory of resources and tools to help you build your startup
and they are not kidding here on the home page if you look at it you've got a list of all the types
of resources you'd need from idea generation to design and deployment.
Customers are poor and beyond click any of those.
Let's say we go to mockups and wireframe and now you see a list of tools for this task.
So when you click on one let's go with Mockingbird.
Now you see some info about them.
So if you're building a startup you'll need ideas on tools to use for different tasks from time to time
and start up stash.
While it certainly delivers them one reason people create resource compilations is because of the benefits
you can get from Link Building and the eyes of Google and other search engines.
When you link to a site you're endorsing them so that link then increases your SEO value of the page
you've been linked to.
Don't worry about as we talk about that in the last section but just know this Google uses tricks to
figure out whether or not your page is valuable to people.
One of the things they look for is if it's valuable and people will link to it and then it looks for
links.
What's that nice is that whoever you link to can often link back to you.
And that's generally how you make it look like your page is very interesting.
Also just in general people really like sharing resource compilations because they want to be helpful
to their audience however small it may be.
So how exactly could you go about creating a resource compilation of your own.
Well start with links you've bookmarked that help you do research or your job.
If you provide let's say I.T. support maybe you've got links at the ready for all the major laptop or
router manufacturers who create apps for iOS as you might have links to official documentation along
with tools you use for wire framing and emulation.
What resources would benefit your audience.
What would help them do their job better.
I think it's really important to first start in your bookmarks because people like to see resource compilations
but they also like for someone else to do the curation for them.
If you're an expert and what you do you've been doing it for 10 years 20 years.
Chances are you know of some resources that they've never heard of.
That saves them a lot of time.
They feel like they're getting the inside track on something.
Do you think rosted your bookmark list or you pulled out of your Evernote troves all the links that
you've used are shared or saved.
The next thing is really just doing the research yourself because you again being their expert or knowing
something about this topic you're building a resource list for should have a better time or an easier
time finding links to easy to use tools easy to use resources or things that your audience would like.
So it really just comes down to legwork and then using your own perception to kind of curate what you
think is worth using what looks good and then what's common.
But you think it's crap and should be left out between listicle and resource compilations.
You've got two really useful types of content ones that get used by a lot of different bloggers and
businesses dig into these types and try to find some ways that you can offer some of your own.
Chances are you can figure something out.
All right.
Time to take a breath maybe even get some ideas down about these content types.
I strongly suggest taking notes as we go through this because you might get ideas as I described the
content and give you examples of how it works and we'll pick up with some more and the next lecture.
I see it.